[Music]
fifteen dramatic changes on earth
revealed by NASA if you compare some of
the photos on NASA's website you'll see
how human beings have changed our planet
over the years the time difference
between these incredible images range
from five to 100 years one Pettersen
glacier alaska these photos date from
summer 1917 and summer 2005 Pettersen
glacier is an outlet glacier located in
Kenya Floyd's national park near Seward
the photo taken to 1917 shows that it
was an ordinary massive glacier once but
it has dramatically changed due to the
changing climate over 88 years no
icebergs are visible anymore to Aral Sea
Central Asia these two photos date from
August 2000 and honest' 2014 the
disappearance of seas rivers and lakes
is one of the brightest examples of
environmental disasters caused by human
beings
for example the arrow sea in Kazakhstan
almost disappeared by 2014 due to the
extensive irrigation of cotton fields
three Lake Oroville California these
photos date from July 2010 in August
2016 Lake Oroville was hit hard by the
lack of water while California was
suffering from a severe drought it's
hard to believe we're looking at the
same place for Carroll glacier Alaska
the photos date from August 1906 and
September 2003 on the first photo the
long way sure extends up to 15 miles
from the border of Alaska with Canada to
Queens Inlet in the Pacific Ocean the
photo taken at the same place almost 100
years later shows that the care of
glacier still exists but it has serious
problems the ice cap is melted and has
been covered with natural debris five
Powell Lake Arizona and Utah March 1999
and May 2014 hallow Lake is an
artificial reservoir located on the
Colorado River it's easy to notice that
its water level has reduced over 15
years at the beginning of 1999 the water
level was high and the water was clear
later the region suffered through a long
term drought and the lake almost this
scientists believe that global warming
will make droughts even more severe in
the future six bear glacier Alaska the
photos date from July 1909 and August
2005 as you can see it's melting very
fast the rise in temperature from 1950
to 1990 caused the giant bear glacier to
retreat by one mile from 2000 to 2005 it
moved another two miles by the way in
2014 there was a massive flood that
affected the local population seven
forests in rondônia Brazil these two
photos date from June 1975 in August
2009 since the 1960s Amazon rainforests
have been actively cut down according to
current estimates they now have about 80
percent left the state of Rondonia in
Brazil lost most of its forests ate the
kardi glacier Alaska
look at these two photos from July 1909
in August 2004 the difference between
them is evidence nine miles of the
glacier melted away according to
researchers the glacier melts about one
mile per year on average
however this indicator has increased
over the last decade 9 the Dust River
Pakistan the photos date from August
1999 and June 2011 this place has
changed in a better way
the Mirani dam supplies clean drinking
water and power to the surrounding area
dam also helps support local agriculture
10 Matterhorn mountain in the Alps this
place is located on the border between
Switzerland and Italy the photos date
from August 1960 in August 2005 as you
can see there was almost no snow on the
mountain in the second photo I guess no
comment
11 topic in glacier Alaska the photos
date from June 1909 in September 2000
the glacier named after one of the
slopes covered a large territory wants
unfortunately like many other glaciers
on our planet this one keeps melting
fast
comparing the two photos you can see
that there is less snow in 2000
much much less
twelve great man-made River Libya April
1987 in April 2010 this is the greatest
engineering project in the world a
network of pipes aqueducts and wells
more than 310 miles feet the water
system provides a desert area with water
at least it has a positive impact 13
Cory Collis glacier Peru July 1978 and
July 2011
if the tropical glacier located in the
Andes Mountains of Peru frankly speaking
it's almost impossible to recognize this
place nowadays the difference is truly
shocking 14 March Ikeda Lake Argentina
the photos date from July 1998 and
September 2011 March Akito Lake is the
biggest salt lake in South America as
you see it has become smaller in recent
years but the area still looks lush 15
Maria Glacier Alaska here's one more
consequence of global warming these
photos date from August 1941 in August
2004 nowadays there is almost no snow
the place is covered by trees and grass
so what do you think have these photos
impressed you and give this video a
thumbs up and don't forget to subscribe
if you're visiting our channel for the
first time
[Music]